migrating lazy-loading content (#3176)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/fast/lazy-loading-problems/index.md

---
layout: post

> title: Lazy-loading problems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Lazy-loading best practices
```

authors:
  - jeremywagner
  - rachelandrew
date: 2019-08-16
updated: 2020-06-11
description: |

>   This post details some of the potential pitfalls of lazy-loading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This post details how to navigate the potential pitfalls of lazy-loading.
```

tags:
  - performance
---

While lazy-loading images and video have positive and measurable performance
benefits, it's not a task to be taken lightly. If you get it wrong, there could
be unintended consequences. As such, it's important to keep the following

> concerns in mind:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
concerns in mind.
```

## Mind the fold {: #wrong-fold }

It may be tempting to lazy-load every single media resource on the page with
JavaScript, but you need to resist this temptation. Anything resting above the
fold shouldn't be lazy-loaded. Such resources should be considered critical
assets, and thus should be loaded normally.

> The primary argument for loading critical media resources the usual way in lieu
> of lazy-loading is that lazy-loading delays the loading of those resources until
> after the DOM is interactive when scripts have finished loading and begin
> execution. For images below the fold, this is fine, but it would be faster to
> load critical resources above the fold with a standard `<img>` element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lazy-loading delays the loading of resources until after the DOM is interactive
when scripts have finished loading and begin execution. For images below the
fold, this is fine, but critical resources above the fold should be loaded with
the standard `<img>` element so they're displayed as soon as possible.
```

Of course, where the fold lies is not so clear these days when websites are
viewed on so many screens of varying sizes. What lies above the fold on a laptop
may well lie _below_ it on mobile devices. There's no bulletproof advice for
addressing this optimally in every situation. You'll need to conduct an
inventory of your page's critical assets, and load those images in typical
fashion.

Additionally, you may not want to be so strict about the fold line as the
threshold for triggering lazy-loading. It may be more ideal for your purposes to
establish a buffer zone some distance below the fold so that images begin

> loading well before the user scrolls them into the viewport. For example, The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loading well before the user scrolls them into the viewport. For example, the
```

Intersection Observer API allows you to specify a `rootMargin` property in an
options object when you create a new `IntersectionObserver` instance. This
effectively gives elements a buffer, which triggers lazy-loading behavior before
the element is in the viewport:

```javascript
let lazyImageObserver = new IntersectionObserver(function(entries, observer) {
  // lazy-loading image code goes here
}, {
  rootMargin: "0px 0px 256px 0px"
});
```

> If the value for `rootMargin` looks similar to values you'd specify for a CSS
> `margin` property, that's because it is! In this case, we're broadening the
> bottom margin of the observing element (the browser viewport by default, but
> this can be changed to a specific element using the `root` property) by 256
> pixels. That means the callback function will execute when an image element is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the value for `rootMargin` looks similar to values you'd specify for a CSS
`margin` property, that's because it is! In this case, the
bottom margin of the observed element (the browser viewport by default, but
this can be changed to a specific element using the `root` property) is broadened by 256
pixels. That means the callback function will execute when an image element is
```

> within 256 pixels of the viewport, meaning that the image will begin to load
> before the user actually sees it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
within 256 pixels of the viewport and the image will begin to load
before the user actually sees it.
```

> To achieve this same effect using scroll event handling code, simply adjust your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this same effect using scroll event handling code, adjust your
```

> `getBoundingClientRect` check to include a buffer, and you'll get the same
> effect in browsers that don't support Intersection Observer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`getBoundingClientRect` check to include a buffer.
```

## Layout shifting and placeholders {: #wrong-layout-shifting }

> lazy-loading media can cause shifting in the layout if placeholders aren't used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lazy-loading media can cause shifting in the layout if placeholders aren't used.
```

main thread, causing the user interface to be unresponsive for a short period of
time while decoding occurs. [Asynchronously decoding images using the `decode`
method](https://medium.com/dailyjs/image-loading-with-image-decode-b03652e7d2d2)
prior to inserting them into the DOM can cut down on this sort of jank, but
beware: It's not available everywhere yet, and it adds complexity to lazy-loading logic.
If you want to use it, you'll need to check for it. Below shows
how you might use `Image.decode()` with a fallback:

```javascript
var newImage = new Image();
newImage.src = "my-awesome-image.jpg";

if ("decode" in newImage) {
  // Fancy decoding logic
  newImage.decode().then(function() {
    imageContainer.appendChild(newImage);
  });
} else {
  // Regular image load
  imageContainer.appendChild(newImage);
}
```

Check out [this CodePen link](https://codepen.io/malchata/pen/WzeZGW) to see
code similar to this example in action. If most of your images are fairly small,
this may not do much for you, but it can certainly help cut down on jank when
lazy-loading large images and inserting them into the DOM.

## When stuff doesn't load {: #wrong-loading-failure }

> Sometimes media resources will fail to load for one reason or another and errors
> occur. When might this happen? It depends, but here's one hypothetical scenario

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes media resources fail to load for one reason or another and errors
occur. When might this happen? It depends, but here's one hypothetical scenario
```
